Create how-to-buy-and-sell-a-star.md (#9)
urbit/operators.urbit.org: content/guides/how-to-buy-and-sell-a-star.md

Finally, a star that's on L2 isn't really commodity grade at this time, because it's helpful to be able to verify how many planets a star has spawned, and to see its reputation.

In short, a star is always valuable, but an L1 star with little to no reputation and fewer planets spawned is more valuable.

An unbooted, virgin, L1 star is commodity grade.

### Your Takeaways

To sum up this section, when you look to buy a star, you want to check for yourself whether the star is booted or unbooted, virgin or naked, and L1 or L2. If the star has been booted, or has spawned some of its planets, or is on L2, you may want to negotiate a lower price for it, or look for a different star. Or not! It all depends what you want to do with the star, and when.

In the rest of this guide, we'll figure out how to check all this, so you know what you're getting, and how to safely purchase it.

> ### Shopping for a Star
> 
> Currently there are two main marketplaces for stars, although a third, [Star Marketplace](https://star.market/), is coming soon. 
> 
> The first is [OpenSea](https://opensea.io/collection/urbit-id?search[sortAscending]=true&search[sortBy]=PRICE&search[stringTraits][0][name]=size&search[stringTraits][0][values][0]=star). Prices are in Ethereum, and the star is in escrow. Possession is automatically transferred to you when you purchase it.
> 
> If you are looking for a deal, you may be able to time a dip in Ethereum prices, but naturally that is pretty chancy.
> 
> The second marketplace, naturally, is on Urbit itself, `~tirrel/the-marketplace`. It is more informal, and you negotiate with and purchase from a community member directly. This does require a certain level of trust! Some people prefer to negotiate partial payment upfront, and the rest after star delivery. You may be able to find better prices than on OpenSea, but don't count on it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Shopping for a Star

There are a few different places where you can acquire stars.

#### [Urbitex](https://urbitex.io/market)

Urbitex is a marketplace that exclusively sells Urbit IDs. Items are priced in Ethereum.

#### [OpenSea](https://opensea.io/collection/urbit-id?search[sortAscending]=true&search[sortBy]=PRICE&search[stringTraits][0][name]=size&search[stringTraits][0][values][0]=star)

OpenSea is a popular NFT marketplace that lists Urbit IDs including stars. They are typically priced in Ethereum, and possession is automatically transferred to you when you purchase it.

#### [star.market](https://star.market/)

This isn't a marketplace, but rather a contract that allows stars to be swapped for WSTR (wrapped star) ERC-20 tokens and vice versa, at a rate of one WSTR to one star. There is a Uniswap pool linked on the site where you can exchange Ethereum for WSTR, and then if you have at least 1 WSTR you can unwrap it on star.market to receive a star.

#### ~tirrel/the-marketplace

`~tirrel/the-marketplace` is an Urbit group for over-the-counter trading of stars galaxies. It is more informal, and you negotiate with and purchase from a community member directly. This does require a certain level of trust! Some people prefer to negotiate partial payment upfront, and the rest after star delivery.
```

        - 1. escapeRequestsIndexes
        - 2. getOwnedPoints
        - ...
        - 65. isRequestingEscapeTo

Of the many possible attributes you could check, you will want to look at `16. getSpawnCount`, and `32. points`. These should both read `0`.

### Taking Possession of Your Star

Now that you have bought a star, how do you get control of it? There are two main possibilities, and both involve Bridge, at [bridge.urbit.org](https://bridge.urbit.org/). 

First, you might have been sent the Master Ticket. This contains a username and a long passphrase. Use these to log in to Bridge. At this point, the seller still owns your star. You should immediately transfer ownership to your own wallet. You can then generate a new Master Ticket, or leave that till later. The old Master Ticket will be invalid as soon as you transfer ownership. You now control your star.

> Second, when you purchased your star, the owner may have transferred ownership to your wallet address. This is a little more likely, because it's easy. Go to Bridge, and choose to log in using the wallet address. You will simply sign a transaction which verifies that you control the address which controls this star. You now control your star. Again, you may want to generate a Master Ticket, although you don't need to because no one else has this information.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Second, when you purchased your star, the owner may have transferred ownership to your Ethereum wallet. Go to [Bridge](https://bridge.urbit.org), and connect your wallet. Metamask is the easiest wallet to use, but a number of wallets which support WalletConnect work as well. If you're received your star in a wallet that doesn't support WalletConnect, you can also login with the wallet's seedphrase or set it up in MetaMask. If the star has been directly transferred, it will be listed among the Urbit IDs you own as soon as you log in. Alternatively, you may see an incoming transfer of the star. In that case, you will need some Ethereum in the wallet to submit a transaction accepting the transfer. Once accepted, it will appear among the Urbit IDs you own.
```

 
Because stars are valuable pieces of crypto property, you may want to store it someplace other than the cloud, a browser-based wallet, or even a wallet on your local computer. One common option is to buy a hardware wallet, essentially a secure thumb drive which otherwise works the same as any other wallet. This is sometimes called a "cold wallet," as opposed to a "hot wallet," which is internet-connected.

Often someone who wants to transfer crypto __off__ their "cold" wallet will transfer it instead onto their computer, and then from their computer-based wallet to wherever they want to send it. This way the hardware wallet is never connected directly to the internet, and stays cold.

Supposing you have a hardware wallet such as Trezor or Ledger, you can put your star on it by transferring ownership of the star from your current wallet address (such as a Metamask wallet address) to the hardware wallet address. Simply follow the steps in the previous section. To use Bridge with your star in future, you will need to connect your hardware wallet to Metamask and then to Bridge.

### To the Stars

> That concludes our brief guide to buying a star. We're happy you believe in the future of Urbit. For next steps, you might check out our [Guides for Urbit Operators

Reviewer: ```suggestion
That concludes our brief guide to buying a star. For next steps, you might check out our [Guides for Urbit Operators
```
